Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to build out a really useful function and this could be one of the functions
that you keep within your library of functions because it's super useful with javascript and this is
the ability to shuffle your items with it array.
So we've got an array here and this is the same one that we use previously.
And what I actually want to do is I want to shuffle the array so I build a function.
Am I going to have that strt function.
And basically what the start function is going to do is give them a call to shuffle the array.
So you going to create another function to shuffle the array.
And I also want to pass in those array values so that we can we can shuffle those as well.
So let's shuffle the array and the read that we're shuffling is secret word.
And then what we want to do is we put it.
So again we need to set up the put so put equals don't commence get element ID screw scrub the output
element into our object.
And every time we shuffle let's let's put what our area looks like.
So we'll put our array and order should actually change.
So let's now set up the function in order to shuffle array and we're taken that one parameter which
is going to be the array and we're passing that in.
And then here is where all the magic is going to happen.
And once I finish shuffling that rate let's return that new array value.
So right now whenever we refresh refreshed we're going to just simply get output and I should put a
line break in there.
So it's more readable.
So let's try that again.
So now every time I click it we still get the same order.
So the idea here is that we want to take the rate order and we want to shuffle it around.
And this is going to be a really useful function when it comes to arrays.
So I use it quite often when I'm working with arrays and I use this function to shuffle the values within
the arrays.
So we need to create a loop so let's create a loop starting with the value of x and we give it a value
of whatever the length of the array is that's passed in.
So this is what makes it dynamic.
We also have to subtract one because we know that arrays start at zero.
So I want to make sure that I'm able to count down all the way to zero.
So let's do a B minus one and we're going to loop while x is larger than 0 and we're going to decrease
the value of X by 1 through every iteration of the loop.
So we know that we're picking up that this serie A secret were array is being passed and here we're
passing it in to this function as a parameter here so this argument is being passed in as a parameter.
And we're able to make use of it within our array.
So now we need to set up a variable and this variable is going to be holding holding values.
I usually just call that Holder and call to the math floor and this is similar to what we just did previously
where we get a random value for the items in the array.
So this time we know that we have all of the values within the array under X and we're going to do X
plus 1
so this is going to give us one of the items that are in the array.
And as we decrease the number of items left within those random formula are going to change as well.
So there's going to be a possibility to take several items and just swap them randomly so basically
that's what we're doing.
And as we loop through the array we're going to select two different items and swap positions.
So the holder is just selecting a random item from the array that's available.
And next we need to set up a tent.
So this is going to be our Ted value from the array.
So all we need to do is set up and use X here.
So now what we're holding is so we loop through the array we're going to decrease the value X..
We're going to start out with the highest values we're going to take.
Web site we're also doing our random value of x here so we could have any one of these.
Within this loop as well.
So we're taking the value for web site.
We're holding it temporarily.
And next we're reassigning the value from web site and we're going to pace to use another item from
a rig and this time we're going to use this random item here within the race so basically we're swapping
but we're not including this one in the swap so we can't swap it with itself essentially.
So if not we pick up random item that we're holding from knife here.
And then lastly let's swap our hold for value.
So this is a random one and we're swapping it with the value we had initially held in 10.
So that's it.
So basically what's going to happen here is as we look through these three items are going to swap places.
Let's refresh it and try this out.
So we see that basically we're able to generate random array listing so re-index the array and have
it randomly displayed.
And this works really well if I add more values and I'm going to do some Americans because they're just
easier to do.
So will refresh and you can see that because it's dynamic.
It works with any number of items within the array.
And then also we can utilize this with any array essentially.
That's why I said that this is a great function to have and you will find that as you're developing
this is where functions become really useful because you will develop these nice neat functions that
are fully dynamic and you can utilize them in any number of projects.
So when you're calling out and you need something to shuffle an array you can default to one of these
ones that you've built.
So go ahead.
Open up your editor create an array and create the shuffle array function.
So try it for yourself and check it out and try it and see how it works within your editor within your
browser.